How to test changes:
Customer satisfaction is the sole aim of any software product and regardless of the type of customer using a 
a system, service outage will really impact customer satisfaction negatively as such a test plan that would 
avoid outage of the cluster is going to be presented.
To ensure that the kubernetes hardening test does not lead to cluster outage and consequently shutting out the 
production system, we're going to make use of three environments for applying cluster hardening changes:
1. Development Environment: This environment would be the first point of entry for all test changes.
    Developers and security engineers can deploy changes and test for any abnormality of the changes.
    The process is iterated until the change is ready for the next stage of testing.
2. Staging Environment: Once the changes are tested and confirmed to be fairly stable then the changes can be
    moved to the staging environment. This environment which is sometimes called beta environment is very similar
    to the production environment. More production-like test are run on these changes to verify the changes made.
3. Production Environment: Once all changes has been tested and found to be stable then these changes can be 
    moved to the production environment.


How will you ensure the changes don't negatively affect your cluster?
Downtime or a product that doesn't work as it should can lead to customer dissatisfaction.
By thoroughly testing changes in multiple environments, we can be certain of a more relaiable product.
Proper monitoring using prometheus and grafana would be utilized across these multiple environments especially in
the production environment to ensure that the cluster is not negatively impacted by the cluster hardening
changes.
Besides these monitoring and observability strategies, deploying changes to the production environment would be
through the blue/gree deployment strategy.
According to RedHat, Blue green deployment is an application release model that gradually transfers user 
traffic from a previous version of an app or microservice to a nearly identical new release—both of which are 
running in production. 
The old version can be called the blue environment while the new version can be known as the green environment. 
Once production traffic is fully transferred from blue to green, blue can standby in case of rollback or pulled 
from production and updated to become the template upon which the next update is made.

Using the Blue green deployment strategy can further ensure that changes don't negatively affect the cluster.

